# Computing Techniques to Improve Semi-quantitative Colorimetric Test Kits
This repository contains the code used for the experiment _Computing Techniques to Improve Semi-quantitative Colorimetric Test Kits_ for the NJRSF in 2019, as well as some examples of pictures used for such analysis. 

This is the submitted abstract:
>Current procedures for element extraction and their subsequent color development for analysis, while effective, are very time consuming and utilize dangerous chemicals. Educational test kits, such as the LaMotte plant tissue test kit, are much safer and quicker, however, come at a cost of accuracy. Usage for these tests in plant analysis is becoming increasingly important. Phosphorus was chosen to be analyzed due to its importance to plants as a major nutrient for growth and energy generation; it is one of the essential elements to test as an assessment of plant health. When it comes to an educational setting, extraction and colorimetric analysis procedures are not widely available, leading classrooms to use the less-accurate but cheaper educational test kits. As such, smartphones have been experimented with as a cheaper and more accessible alternative to be used as colorimetric analytical devices, assisting in quantitative measurement. This research evaluates the potential for colorimetric determination of color developed phosphorus samples using RGB analysis of smartphone pictures under varied lighting conditions. Samples from known concentrations of phosphorus and unknown digests prepared from both a standardized wet digestion procedure using nitric acid and hydrogen peroxide as well as the “Extraction Solution” provided in the test kit were analyzed. Success of this experiment means probable future applications of an algorithm for other types of colorimetric tests, allowing widespread availability for such tests. Data are currently being collected and analyzed.

Unfortunately, due to some loss of files from losing the original computer on which this project was located, the images, slideshow, and conclusions are not in my possession, and what's written here may not be 100% accurate as officially reported in the original experiment. However, the most important conclusion was about 90% accuracy of prediction in the images with controlled lighting, brightness and darkness decrease such accuracy.
